---
vintage: bel-soula/2022
---

I liked Unrivaled a lot. The intimate arena. Courtside prepared to look really
good on tv. The pace. I absolutely loved the free throw rules: I know how sicko
that sounds, but I'd never heard that sort of rule change discussed anywhere
before seeing it tonight. I was floored by how that shaped the stakes, how
suspenseful free throws became. Rare to have the game shaken up and see such a
mundane mechanic anew. Of course, the elam ending: phenomenal. And we still have
the 1v1 tournament in waiting, kicking off early February. Unrivaled is a big
swing and it would have been so easy to take it easy, to try a more familiar
format. But whether necessitated by logistics — the number of players or
resources available driving the move to three on three — or the women athletes
understanding that, historically, the threshold for attracting viewers is so
much higher for them and that a conservative, "boring" format was simply not an
option, the end result feels like a risk paid off.

All the more impressive because experiments usually take time to play out. There
are growing pains and I'm sure they'll come for Unrivaled in some respect, as
they do for every league, really as they come every season for even the most
established leagues (see: late October / early November shooting numbers in the
NBA). A testament to the immense talent on the courts, of course, but there's
something else here, the sum of immense preparation and testing and organization
and, more than anything else, drive from the player-investors involved. Just to
say, lightning in a bottle's not the norm, so worth appreciating when it's
caught like this.

Aside:
[Ok, Skylar Diggins-Smith](https://www.espn.com/video/clip/_/id/43458364).

I'm trying to hold onto this same thought with my Celtics right now. Stuck in a
malaise for a month going. They played really well tonight, against a team in
the Magic that has played them better than almost anyone. But, to put it mildly,
this is not the season fans expected. And it doesn't help that the Cavs and
Thunder are running away with their respective conferences. Like the Celtics did
last year. Like the Cs' window has slammed shut right after it opened all the
way. Fans will complain about the streak of .500 ball and bad plays in bad
losses and call out whatever their least favorite player or habit of these
Celtics' is, but I imagine it boils down to that: a sense that the expectation
of a repeat championship, insane an expectation as it is, is out of reach so
soon.

Again, what they did last season is not normal. Bringing in 2 completely new
starters, star players in their own rights, while shipping out a beloved,
long-tenured, culture-setting player in Marcus Smart, then marauding through the
regular and post seasons. There were barely any speed bumps. So now, with the
team playing very differently this season, playing Queta significant minutes,
sometimes in high leverage situations, oftentimes not looking remotely ready,
with Porzingis injured for the first couple months of the season, clearly
limiting Holiday's minutes and limiting Horford's even more than they already
were, with Payton Pritchard ascending and pushing Hauser down the bench
hierarchy (let alone Hauser's tough shooting season, by his standards), even
closing over Holiday sometimes, having played deep into June, then with three of
the team's top players spending a swath of the summer on Olympic basketball, now
in the doldrums of the season, could the fanbase forgive the team for dragging?
Whether exhaustion or boredom or just debts coming due, the inevitability of
adversity in a long season that was somehow deferred for a year. This is all so
much self-soothing. Trying to convince myself that the team we watched last year
is still in there, somewhere, just inert at the moment. Oh and also they're
still on pace for about 57 wins; that's something, I guess. Like mid-season
panic is a byproduct of the same boredom we're all projecting on the players and
complaining about. Huh.
