---
vintage: sittelle/2023
---

If you're the Lynx, think of OKC and hope for good health. Also underwhelming in
their in-season tournament final. They were so loudly inept. I remember cooking
brats, making an occasion of the game, then sitting there mildly dumbfounded,
going in preparing for the Bucks to get absolutely whupped, then watching the
Thunder look â€¦ tired? Confused? Uninterested? A result that sticks with you for
7 months. More importantly, Collier's back, though was pretty bad tonight.
Indiana played with far more force , but that can't explain her performance.
Hopefully nothing serious or lingering.

If you're the Fever, wow. Clark didn't play at all. Mitchell had a relatively
quiet night. And still. Howard was the star. Boston, punishing in the paint. A
team I thought of as more pick-and-roll and pace-and-transition was all of a
sudden bruising, slashing, drive-heavy. To have that other gear in their bag
tends be a good sign for their playoff future. But Clark is her own galaxy,
reshaping everyone's roles. Sports aren't neatly calculated: add x player, get y
benefit. This is one game, hard to say how any of this maps to the team's
approach once Clark is back. But for tonight at least, a ton of fun to watch,
they were exceptional top to bottom. Sid Colson I hope won't go
underappreciated. Seemed like every time she came off the bench, she immediately
and calmly nailed a big shot or made some key play. And I'm so happy for Ari
McDonald. I remember watching her run at Arizona a few years back, how at times
it seemed like she was playing a different sport, she was so good. Her WNBA
career got off to a rocky start, but it seems she might've found a home with the
Fever, or at least is putting enough good work on tape to earn a more solid
foothold in the league. Her stats tonight won't fly off the page and she had
some rough moments, but she displayed, especially in the second half, a
level-headedness, an ability to avoid mistakes, that every championship-aspiring
team wants.
