Another season just about over. I think I am excited for the playoffs. I think. I find myself looking back to mid-winter. Less missing out then. Less attention strain. These are all good things and tiresome things. 9:30pm eastern starts on a Sunday weigh a whole lot more when you don't want to miss any games. There's nothing like playoff basketball. I wish I could cocoon for the next 2 months — I always forgot how long the 'yoffs last, one of those numbers that never seems real when you say it out loud — and eat and sleep and stretch and watch hoops.

<hr />

Christmas Day, Luka pulling up short, hobbling. It didn't look immediately season-ending, he wasn't piled on the floor screaming in pain, but you always catch your breath with a non-contact leg injury. The prognosis was as positive as you could hope for: a calf strain, missing a month or so, a few weeks for the Mavs to tread water. They'd had an up-and-down start to the season, but were trending upward. Maybe glossing over some details in retrospect, but this read as pretty normal behavior for a team coming off a deep playoff run, not to mention adding significant pieces in the off-season. Groggy to start, before picking up the pieces. Really, the trend of many of Luka's Dallas teams. Usually with plenty of chatter early season about his, uh, conditioning coming into the year.

The Thunder, running away with the conference from the jump, and I wanted to see Luka match up with them again in the playoffs, with the whole team healthy, with so much size around him, more shooting than last year's Finals run. He's one of those few players who seem inevitable at their peaks. The Stephs and Lebrons and Giannis' of the world. Jimmy Butler in the playoffs. Bending the fabric of the game, the flow of energy amongst the 9 other players on the court, around their will.

"Fire Nico"

Luka, inevitable. His jump shot looked effortless in Dallas tonight. Slow motion, really. Slow enough you could count the wrinkles on his compression shorts on the backs of his knees as he sunk into his shooting motion, fluidly, languidly draining a three. Or jump shot. Or anything else he decided to do. Effortless.

Time warp of a season. Feels like it evaporated since Christmas. Fitting, then, that Luka's first visit back came so late in the season. Not without stakes; playoff positioning, of course, and more, the emotional, Luka crying at the tribute video. But it felt rushed, crammed in, almost. That there hasn't been room to pause and catch anyone's breath after the decision. This season feeling inconsequential in itself, more prelude for what's to follow, <a href="https://www.espn.com/nba/story/_/id/44588385/luka-doncic-adapting-trade-dallas-mavericks-los-angeles-lakers" target="_blank">the long drag of missing a generational talent on the Mav's fortunes</a>. Time, flimsier than ever.

And yet, outside the lines, far, far heavier. It's been a long year that's getting longer and I would look to basketball for something I love and enjoy and of course I have and still do but it fucking sucks that Luka is no longer a Mav. Teams make bad personnel decisions for non-basketball reasons all the time (saving money, mainly), but you can usually count on teams organizing around generationally talented players; maybe not super well, but it's a reliable forcing function: very good players are good for the business of selling basketball; who knew? Some semblance of acting for positive interest, for the good of something. And so of course, in this cursed year, Nico Harrison does this. Or, well, he fronted the decision and has gone to great lengths explaining how few people were involved in it; perhaps the most unrealistic aspect of the whole thing, but it's hard to argue he successfully steered public perception. "Fire Nico," after all. On the decision's face, like when you're driving and someone passes you, only to slow back down to roughly your speed once ahead; what exactly did you accomplish, other than feeling some sense of power, being an asshole and flexing your muscles because you can? And yet, base stupidity and ego, on whoever's part in the Mavs organization, would be a pill far easier to swallow than the far more sinister — and I think far more likely, given <a href="https://frontofficesports.com/nfl-mlb-nba-owners-2024-election-trump-harris/" target="_blank">team ownership</a> — machinations you can conjure up if you think about it. Just go read <a href="https://x.com/LoewyLawFirm/status/1886211634097746331" target="_blank">this, by Chirs Kratovil</a>. Which I found by way of <a href="https://www.truehoop.com/p/miriam-adelsons-luka-trade" target="_blank">Henry Abbott's spectacular write-up of the trade and Mavs owner Miriam Adelson over at TrueHoop</a> (paywalled, but absolutely worth your money). Though Kratovil's breakdown suggests that Adelson and co.'s departure to Vegas is not a foregone conclusion, instead hinging on the Texas legislature's compliance with their demands to legalize gambling. I'm not sure I buy that, not that I know even a fraction of what he does. Still, Dallas, granting the league a star in its premier market, not to mention a European star during negotiations around a <a href="https://www.nytimes.com/athletic/6234659/2025/03/27/nba-adam-silver-europe-basketball-league/" target="_blank">European expansion project</a>, feels like so much benefit going the NBA's way and nothing concrete coming back to Dallas that I wonder if Adelson's already committed to moving the team, calling her lobbying sunk costs and moving on to Vegas. Why bother staying to fight in the Texas legislature if the NBA's given you an off-ramp? And what would stop the NBA from, down the line, resurrecting the Mavs in Dallas? Do you think Sonics fans will boycott the league when their team returns (as I assume and hope it will one day)? It makes far more sense that Adelson's play is to tank the Mavs to the point of financial instability so bad that they can credibly threaten to leave if Texas doesn't clear the way for her casino, but it feels like there's no measuring the ruthless greed at play.

I love basketball, but it's hard. At the end of the day, in this league and sports everywhere, so often, the people running things have the same bent as those burning down the US government. Empty, loveless people. People who have lost the capacity to stand for anything, to want anything healthy for themselves, who instead look to beat the happiness and self-actualization out of anyone they sense can still feel for themselves. Jeering at Hiyao Miyazaki, for example, laughing with the deer god's head in their hands because there is no god of death coming for them. No fairness for these people. No rebalancing. They will take and hoard and die rich with no consequence. No purpose. Such is so much of our world's history. No consequence, no purpose. Dragons sitting on gold. It's a good year for them and the Mavs got the message, clearly.

<hr/>

In the Kings-Nuggets nightcap, of course involving the inimitable Mark Jones: calling Michael Porter Jr's jumper "pulchritudinous." Jay Bilas, stumped. Then the two of them reminiscing about Arvydas Sabonis, saying he may have been the best player in the world in the mid-80s before he ever played in the NBA, <a href="https://www.reddit.com/r/nba/comments/14kmap3/21yearold_arvydas_sabonis_posterizes_20yearold/" target="_blank">a highlight Jones remembered of Sabonis dunking on David Robinson so fiercely it seemed the backboard might come off</a>.  Nice to see there's still some room for levity and loving the game.

<hr/>

</a>

Last but not least. I love Cheez-Its. I'm a big Jimmy Butler fan. I may need the jersey the little girl's wearing in this ad on a spiritual level:

<lite-youtube videoid="UCMpOwZOyiY" params="start=15" style="background-image: url('https://i.ytimg.com/vi/UCMpOwZOyiY/hqdefault.jpg');">
  <a href="https://youtube.com/watch?v=UCMpOwZOyiY" class="lyt-playbtn" title="Cheez-It — Lesson #3: Tunnel Walk feat. Jimmy Butler" >
    <span class="lyt-visually-hidden">Play Video: Cheez-It — Lesson #3: Tunnel Walk feat. Jimmy Butler</span>
  </a>
</lite-youtube>
