---
vintage: le-telquel/2023
---

import LynxTimeline from "../../../components/posts/lynx-timeline.astro";
import Quote from "../../../components/quote.astro";

The Lynx looking firmly in revenge mode after last season sputtered out in
overtime of game 5. Overtime, of the final game of the season. There are no
better words in sports than Game ~Seven~ Five, as they say. But what about
_overtime_ of game 5?

2\. The number of whole points the Lynx mustered in the extra period. But are
they preferable to these 2?

<lite-youtube videoid="3PMe7Kn7MUw" params="start=0"
style="background-image:url('https://i.ytimg.com/vi/3PMe7Kn7MUw/hqdefault.jpg');"

>

  <a
    href="https://youtube.com/watch?v=3PMe7Kn7MUw"
    class="lyt-playbtn"
    title="AMAZING ENDING to the 2016 WNBA Finals!!!"
  >
    <span class="lyt-visually-hidden">
      AMAZING ENDING to the 2016 WNBA Finals!!!
    </span>
  </a>
</lite-youtube>

And of course, both games known for infamous late-game officiating. (For that
and more on that night in 2016,
[Secret Base doing great work as always](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fx3yh34pHPg)
).

But you can see in that video, Maya Moore puring a go-ahead jumper.
[And in 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsniUDlvF5o): Stewie missing 2
clutch free throws (again); and then Phee beating Stewie, but then missing the
layup (and sure, many would argue another missed call, but you'd also bet at
least a handful on Collier making that shot).

The flipside of the Lynx dynasty's penchant for avenging their losses: they
never repeated. 2011. 2013. 2015. 2017. Losing to the Mercury in the 2014 WCF,
as well as twice in the Finals, to Tamika Catchings' Fever in 2012 before the
Sparks in 2016. Even for the best teams, that apparently buzz-sawed their way to
victory, that path was still vanishingly narrow; surrounded by so many others of
disappointment, of not-quite-good-enough. Setting aside injuries or contract
disputes or just having the bad luck of running into a team that got hot at the
right time and/or whatever dark magic the 2023 Heat conjured up, finding players
who fit together seems a miracle, trying to tame the chaos of too many players
clawing for too few spots (especially in the WNBA) with scouting and draft luck
and prayer, I guess?

<hr />

The 2010 Lynx, expected to at least improve enough to end their 5 season playoff
drought after trading for Lindsay Whalen and adding Rebekkah Brunson from the
Sacramento Monarchs dispersal draft, never really clicked, going 13-21 and
missing the playoffs again. Injuries had a lot to do with that, with Seimone
Augustus needing abdominal surgery right before training camp, playing her first
game only once the Lynx were in a 2-7 hole in early June. But
[Whalen recently noted](https://winsidr.com/2025/06/how-courtney-williams-has-benefited-from-lindsay-whalen/)
it took that whole first year to adjust to Reeve's system. Speaking of needing
time to adjust, that was Reeve's first as a head coach. And as her assistant
back then, Jim Petersen, noted in 2011,
[she made a big leap](https://web.archive.org/web/20160828031901/http://m.startribune.com/lynx-coach-knows-good-basketball/129849413/)
from that false start. The next year they improved to 27-7 and won the
championship.

<LynxTimeline class="!my-[4em] max-md:-mx-8" />

A lot had to break just right for the Lynx. Seemingly gearing up for contention,
made possible by the Monarchs disappearing from the league entirely and Whalen,
an MVP runner-up, being available at all. But also, a generational talent
available in the upcoming draft, if only they were bad enough to even have odds
in the lottery, let alone winning it. A new head coach, struggling to establish
themselves; the essential difficulty of incorporating new players, let alone
established, accomplished veterans; the timing of Augustus' injury. Then after
this flurry of activity to kick off the dynasty, Sylvia Fowles asking for a
trade in 2015, the Lynx finding a way to make that even work, then managing the
chemistry and tactical challenges of incorporating such a dynamic player into a
championship-expecting roster mid-season.

And just as quickly as this core came together, it all but disbanded after 2018,
with Whalen retiring, Brunson not playing after that year, and Moore choosing to
pursue work far more important than basketball.

It's hard to remember that the 2024 Lynx weren't heralded as some up-and-coming
contender. See their write-up in **_9th place_** of ESPN's preseason rankings:

<Quote
  author="Michael Voepel"
  issue="WNBA preseason Power Rankings 2024: Las Vegas back on top"
  link="https://www.espn.com/wnba/story/_/id/40092221/wnba-2024-preseason-power-rankings-las-vegas-aces-no-1"
  source="ESPN"
>
  <p>
    After missing the postseason in 2022, the Lynx made it back last year
    despite being ninth in the WNBA in scoring average and next to last in
    points allowed. They hope to improve on both in 2024.
  </p>
  <p>...</p>
  <p>If everything comes together, the Lynx could make the playoffs again.</p>
</Quote>

Everything sure did.

But the apparent out-of-nowhereness of last year's Lynx, as they build on their
new-found chemistry (returning almost the same roster this year) and
world-beater, MVP candidate in Collier, a reminder of the randomness inherent in
team building. The immense luck it takes to draw out any sustained success in
the league, let alone 4 championships; how the line between that glory and being
just another good — not great — team, tends to widen over time, to the point
where it seems unquestionable that great teams were great to begin with.

Taking championships as the only metric that matters or rings culture or
whatever you want to call it is boring and obnoxious, but I get the core of all
that chatter: that narrative makes sports more entertaining through simplicity.
It gives people a handle by which to decide who to cheer for, who to argue for.
There's a lot of comfort in good storytelling. You don't watch the _Fast and the
Furious_ for the table-setting and character development, after all (to be
clear, I absolutely love those movies). It's a bummer, though, when the talk
gets so imbalanced, any taste for complexity lost, that we're only accounting
for Good and Bad, barking at each other about who's in which bucket. The 2010s
Lynx _were_ Good. Very Very Good. And even though I'm neither a Lynx fan nor a
long-enough fan of the WNBA to have any nostalgia for the 2010s, I understand
the urge to frame today's Lynx against the patterns, contrived as they may be,
of those great teams. Throughlines, a sense of order, things being neatly in
place. But I also appreciate the curiosity that two of their championships were
making up for the previous year's Finals loss. And today, whatever the future
holds for these Lynx, I appreciate Courtney Williams somehow pulling up from a
full sprint to hit an elbow jumper, let alone, often, multiple times a game.
Smaller, subtler things, less useful for accounting; good for the soul to stop
and let them in every so often.
