---
vintage: sangiovese/2023
---

import AjaReel from "../../../components/posts/aja-reel.astro";
import Quote from "../../../components/quote.astro";

<AjaReel class="-ml-8 w-[calc(100%_+_48px)] lg:-ml-[150px] lg:w-[calc(100%_+_300px)]" />

I find sometimes watching hoops, some play jumps out at me for whatever reason.
It gives me this ... head-buzzing. Not shock and awe or amazement. These aren't
the showstoppers, the glamour highlights, as it were, a volcanic dunk or
ankle-breaker or game-winner. You will not catch these on any top 10 or a random
highlight reel that pops in your feed 5 years from now. Appreciation?

Basketball is hypnotic. As in, boring. As in, for a stream of near-continuous
activity, the last 5 minutes of close games sometimes miserably notwithstanding,
so much of what happens is patterned, repetitive (we're "people are taking too
many threes these days", to be clear). Like any medium, there are constraints on
how much people can actually do, accentuated by the fact that people are doing
the thing over and over and over, over so many — (far?) too many? — games: even
if you could watch every second, would you want to? I love this rhythm, to be
clear, that each play flows into the next, that it's harder to dwell on
specifics when the next thing is already happening, and then the next and the
next and then the game is over. But basketball can also be, plainly, _boring_.
I've felt that more in recent years, sometimes losing interest in watching games
for a week or two, here and there. And I say this loving the supposed dregs of
the season, late November/early December and mid-January-to-All-Star. Seasons of
cozy, low-pressure watching. Relaxing, enjoyable, in spite of, but I guess also
because: _boring_.

These flits of appreciation, then: these sudden gaps in the metronomy of the
game. Like all of a sudden I can see the shape of my care for the game more
clearly, what I like, the kind of play I value, that might matter not at all to
any random someone else. How much of obsessing about something is your ability
to suffer the smaller, worthless details of the thing? Finding the personality
of your affection?

# VIDEO

{/* PUT VIDEO OF PLAY HERE */}

So I saw this in real time and I felt it in my head and felt it'd be worth
writing about, but I wasn't sure why, it seemed like as fun a prompt as any at
the time, but when I went back to re-watch and clip, having only a rough
timestamp written down, I thought I must have gotten the time wrong, I'd
reimagined it over time, enlarged it, had this vision of A'ja cutting off a
drive on the wing, then pacing down to the dunker's spot to cut off a drive off
a skip pass, then closing out to another shooter on the perimeter (on
reflection, for this to happen: where would the other 4 defenders be? anyway),
which is not to diminish what she's actually done here because honestly this
sequence exceeds any expectation I set earlier, but good defense, perfectly
timed switching and absorbing your primary competition for the MVP's shoulder in
your chest and ricocheting back, but not giving way and getting the stop, near
the end of the 3rd quarter of a game starting to turn, again, this sort of
thing's forgotten in the flow of the game and the season, like I'd forgotten my
head-buzzing in the time passed since watching, that these moments are special
from their passing, products of the game moving on, the opposite of historic,
not landmarks or cairns, but leaves turning and falling in autumn and the act of
remembering is the mild pain of realizing these all pass, but that it feels good
for the soul anyway, as Mr. Ramsay posed in _To the Lighthouse_: "who will blame
him if he does homage to the beauty of the world?" VERIFY THIS

<Quote
  author="Dan Sinker"
  link="https://dansinker.com/posts/2025-07-18-stampking/"
  issue="A Visit With The Stamp King"
>
  <p>
    Fun, but worthless. Not everything has to make a profit, despite the grind
    mindset that's forced on us. Not everything has to have meaning beyond being
    joyful to you, now. Maybe it's some stamps, put in an envelope and kept in a
    box. A box that now sits among hundreds at The Stamp King. Maybe it's
    something else.
  </p>
  <p>
    Whatever it is, I hope it's fun but worthless to you and that you fill your
    boxes with it, every day, until they tower over you. And I hope you take a
    moment to look at those fun but worthless towers of your life and you sigh
    the content, exasperated sigh of the Stamp King. A sigh that says it's all a
    little bit mad and more than a little tiring and even so you know you would
    not do it any differently because someone has to step up and save the things
    that are fun, but worthless.
  </p>
</Quote>

A while back, watching Caitlin Cooper and Sampson Folk discuss the end of the
Pacers' season, Samson all of a sudden, apropos of ... unclear? which is why
they're such a great watch, as meandering sometimes as they can be laser-focused
and deep in their analysis, brought up thinking about BJ Ryan, a relief pitcher
from YEARS ACTIVE who had a stint with the Blue Jays: him, sitting with his
friends, and then one of them just says his name and they sigh happily and nod
or gaze off or whatever you do when you get this hit of nostalgia. And I _felt_
that. I was obsessed with baseball growing up. And then, somewhere in college, I
just...stopped. I haven't paid attention to the game in a good 15 years about.
I've been aware when the Red Sox won the series. And I usually watch a Braves
game or two when I visit my grandma — a religious fan — down in Georgia on her
birthday. I do know who Shohei Ohtani and Aaron Judge are. And, viscerally, I
saw the face of a person who I hadn't thought of for close to half my existence
on this earth. It was nice, these memories that are a shared language of caring
about something, even if you don't care about it any more. How that helps
sustain some measure of happiness over the years. Fun and worthless.

Speaking of, and eminently fit for a stamp, too:

{/* picture of spaghetti */}
