---
vintage: vin-de-frantz/2023
---

2 words: De’Aaron Fox. Hotter than fish grease, as Mark Jones would say (though
Kyle Draper was on the call tonight)

Fox was sensational. He wasn’t just making everything, he was lacing his shots.
Pure. From three, jumpers, floaters, everything. And as he does at his best,
calculated aggression on the defensive end, screaming from help to surprise the
ball handler, nab the rock, and scorch the other way for easy baskets. Fox
looked unstoppable and the Kings seemed destined to take this one. And yet,
there was Ant. At the end of the fourth (that dunk. OH. MY. GOODNESS). And then
again at the end of overtime. This was head and shoulders the best game I’ve
seen all season (granted, I did miss Klay’s return to Golden State earlier in
the week; 10pm starts are tough on a Tuesday).

I was happy for the break before the late games started (yes, break, such
difficulty drinking wine and watching tv). The wine was sitting well, but I
realized I hadn’t eaten much and I’d run from sitting at work to sitting at home
and I felt stiff and in need of some water and a walk. I worked late that
Friday, not getting off till 6:30 or so. I found myself rushing to the grocery
store to grab the idea of a dinner (a bag of buffalo wing Snyder's pretzel
pieces and a salad kit; Friday-night-brained, truly), then rushing home,
unpacking as the games were starting, swearing through realizing that my TV is a
roku tv too old to support multiview in the league pass app — this was my first
time trying multiview —, remembering that league pass has a devices limit on the
cheapest plan and I couldn’t bring up games across my computer and tv, uncorking
the bottle and pouring a glass of wine, feeding the cat, throwing my salad
together, and it was over half way through the first quarter of the early games.
I dove right in, firing up a few games on my laptop, then flitting between
various combinations across the full slate, score-watching to know if some were
getting out of hand and not worth giving one of the four blessed viewing slots.
Sips of wine between jotting down notes and obsessively clicking around to
rearrange multiview as games came to quarter-ends or half time or commercials or
I’d spent long enough on a certain game and wanted to catch pieces of others.

Regardless of how you define quality of play, that is, what you think about when
deciding what games to watch, what’s “good” basketball — favorite team? favorite
players? certain matchups? jersey watching? clutch time? narratives? — you can’t
force payoff. Yes, I’m lying that I overcomplicate this all that often; it’s
looking for close games, mostly. I almost certainly won’t flip on a game with a
20 point gap and 3 minutes left unless it’s just for background noise or a
distraction. And I for sure felt the dopamine hit when all the scanning and
filtering amounted to something. I had a blast with Pistons-Raptors. As the
announcers noted, the Pistons play hard top to bottom. The Ivy-Shead matchup was
intense. RJ Barrett was outstanding, resurrecting the Raps at least twice after
the Pistons built leads with him on the bench. I once heard Charles Barkeley
say, I’m paraphrasing, basketball looks bad when you don’t try; and this was not
the prettiest basketball, but both teams were _trying_. Poetl was massive, too.
Meanwhile, in New York, the Knicks stared into the void, Dennis Schröder stared
back, but then they gave the ball to Jalen Brunson. Bang, as they say. And the
Mikal Bridges block, of course. Insane ending (aside, I am so jealous that
Knicks fans get to listen to Walt Frazier and Mike Breen every home game.
Embarrassment of riches). In Cleveland, wow did the Bulls push. Until it was
winning time and then boy was it winning time for the Cavs. 4 point game to a
blow out in about a minute. They are scary. Still, no matter what you’re channel
flipping for, when you bypass the full journey of a game, there’s something
missing. The weight of the push and pull, the collage of your feelings across
the game’s arc that led to here. That richness of experience, I think, is worth
hanging out for, even at the expense of missing out on “better” things
elsewhere. I bet I would have skipped away from Kings-Wolves had it been in the
earlier slate of games, or at least until, like Knicks-Nets, the score had
tightened to single digits in the closing minutes after an apparent blowout. I
would have missed the sense of futility from the Kings' first half, putting
Fox's transcendent play in even sharper relief. How improbable it seemed before
seeming inevitable.

Tonight was a good reminder that watching experience and quality of play aren’t
strictly proportional. And no, this is not some sicko relativism: I’m not
picking a wizards game over Cavs-Celtics. And I’m probably writing something
completely different here if the Kings folded entirely in the second half. But I
didn’t enjoy watching tonight as much as I usually do, even managing to catch a
handful of great snippets of games. I’m left wishing I had slowed down at the
start of the night and paid attention to where my head was at and what good this
blog might do for me. It’s so easy to trivialize entertainment and hobbies, as
asides from the serious pursuits of life and therefore undeserving of their own
attention. I mean in the face of demands to grind and sell yourself, the
capitalistic enshrinement of shameless opportunism, framing anything without
material purpose as waste, and not in the sense that entertainment is an
affordance of privilege, of having the time and money and safety to invest in
softening the world for yourself, however temporarily. The privilege to factor
self-care into the equation; that I shouldn’t forget to count the blessings of a
night off with a bottle of wine, zoning out and taking games as they come, as
good enough, and not watching for anything in particular at all.
