---
vintage: bombisch-rose/2023
---

Indiana’s been having a very good time.

Game 1 of Pacers-Knicks was some of the craziest shit I’ve ever seen. "He's a
flamethrower"

When I was five or six years old, in the mid 90s, my folks got my brother and I
an N64 and a pile of games for Christmas. One of those games: _NBA Hangtime_. I
didn’t follow the NBA at all back then. I didn't know any of the players, except
maybe Michael Jordan; if I have my dates right, _Space Jam_ (obligatorily
mentioning [the original marketing site](https://www.spacejam.com/1996/) is
_still_ live. The web is a miracle) must have come out earlier that year or the
year prior, and I remember loving that movie growing up. So I don't know why I
settled on playing as the Pacers, specifically with Reggie Miller (noteworthy:
if I understand right from
[this retrospective](https://medium.com/@shahinourian/nba-hangtime-the-game-that-rescued-me-from-my-high-school-years-b94408c14c82)
, MJ wasn't available in _Hangtime_, sounds like he wasn't licensed into the
game. A thread to follow some other time). But from that nostalgia to loving
Reggie in the _Winning Time: Reggie Miller vs. The New York Knicks_ 30-for-30 to
hearing him alongside Kevin Harlan on so many games over the years — sadly
coming to an end soon —, when I think of why I love basketball, he's one of the
first players to come to mind, despite watching virtually none of his career
while it happened (and I imagine, like so many people, I would have thought he
was a total pain in the ass if I had watched it. And don't take my word for it:
go listen to what his own sister, the great Cheryl Miller, has to say in
_Winning Time_; man, that documentary is so funny and so good, maybe peak
30-for-30).

Aside, some history worth knowing on perhaps the most iconic jersey from
Miller's playing days:

<lite-youtube videoid="bZn1yA7iWhc" style="background-image:
url('https://i.ytimg.com/vi/bZn1yA7iWhc/hqdefault.jpg');" class="!mb-20"

>

  <a
    href="https://youtube.com/watch?v=bZn1yA7iWhc"
    class="lyt-playbtn"
    title="The Pacers jerseys Reggie Miller made famous were designed by Flo-Jo … yes, that Flo-Jo | Threads"
  >
    <span class="lyt-visually-hidden">
      The Pacers jerseys Reggie Miller made famous were designed by Flo-Jo …
      yes, that Flo-Jo | Threads
    </span>
  </a>
</lite-youtube>

During last year's playoffs, I stumbled on
[Caitlin Cooper's youtube channel](https://www.youtube.com/@CaitlinCooperBSW/videos),
where she and Samson Folk run in-depth breakdowns on the Pacers — intermittently
during the regular season, then every game during the postseason —, interested
initially when the Pacers met the Celtics in the ECF, but I can't overstate how
invested you feel (or at least how I've felt) in a team's run when you hear
their games, the progression of their strategy, the bad habits that cost them
games and the breakouts that win them, broken down to such detail. To hear
someone pay that much attention, to give so much of a shit, about the evolution
of a team. And much of what they talk about is far over my head, their
basketball fluency far outstripping my own, but still, their love of the game,
attention, and humor are infectious. And stuck with me into this season,
following their work more closely, especially into these playoffs. Writing and
speaking and reading about actually, sincerely liking things feels more
important than ever these days. Good for the soul. Assuming, of course, you're
ok getting pulled onto the Pacers' bandwagon.

I don't know how the Pacers'll fare in the Finals, but no matter what, their run
is what you watch for: outlandish, entertaining, enduring resilience despite
their inconsistencies. It reminds me of the Celtics' run from 2022, how I have
much fonder memories of that time than their championship run; personality goes
a long way and as great as winning is, there's far more personality in suspense
and overcoming obstacles than a buzzsaw. Easy to say post-championship, of
course.

Meanwhile. As the Lynx and Aces can attest from last year, Jonquel Jones is a
problem. A big problem. A I'm Here In the Paint And I Know You Can't Move Me
problem. But there was Aliyah Boston, shouldering Jones back a few steps on the
block, again and again. The Fever have something. The Clark injury overshadows
all — on and, as always, and by no fault of her own, off the court — and I hope
she comes back soon and stays healthy. Boston has been up and down this year.
But she's transcendent at her best. Her and Clark seem well on their way to the
sort of Stockton/Malone, Jokic/Murray mindmeld that opposing teams never really
figure out. I imagine in part because chemistry isn't a tactic, not something
you can feel or observe or explicitly scheme against. Improvisational energy
tying players together. Get to the post, raise her hand, Clark throws it over
the top, bucket. Ruthless efficiency. To lose by 1 against a team that's
historically dog walking the rest of the league is something to keep an eye on.

Then again, in the end, the Liberty might just be inevitable. Just as the
Thunder seem now. But you can hope: Indiana, teams in the balance of their own
magic and chaos and artistry, just as likely to be pulled down in its undertow
as they are to erupt far higher than anyone — anyone, that is, not paying close
attention — thought possible because of it.
