Daylight savings starts tomorrow. _Early_ tomorrow. I committed to hosing the first half of this Sunday ever since I learned Lakers-Celtics was tonight. It's still fun, getting unreasonably excited for these matchups. And I appreciate the serendipity: a game that screams playoffs landing right as spring's oncoming really picks up.

I love the smell of spring. It's hard to describe, almost like you can smell green leaves and warm weather on the cold. And there could be a half foot of snow on the ground still and the day will feel warmer because of that smell. Energizing. Thawing. And of course, in NBA-land, looking ahead to the playoffs. Though I find myself looking ahead even farther, to mid-July, a wrap on this NBA season, the W in full swing, but far still from a pressure point. There's a restlessness that comes with that spring smell, for me at least. As a kid, in highschool, I loved going for walks through our small town's "down town" area at night. It was glorious during warm weather, especially during summer, but those first springy nights had the strongest pull. I guess I mean wanting to go elsewhere; the world's opening up again and after the cold you feel compelled to enjoy whatever time you have there. And the playoffs, more and more, feel constricting. Incredible basketball. Not at all from a viewership standpoint. But I can barely stand the suspense of tight playoff games. Like, feeling borderline physically ill. To resorting to walking around my neighborhood to pass the time in games because watching, the minutes drag and drag and drag. I suppose a conflict of watching for leisure and the structure of the league: there's no hobbyism in the playoffs. Being aware of narratives around the league and having seen how past playoff performances forever inflect how players are discussed and being an anxious, pessimistic person in general who has horrid performance anxiety in sports, watching the playoffs, my mind goes to: who's going to ruin their professional life this spring? Who's going to reach too far or have a dud of a game or series at the worst possible time or fall victim to some hand of god moment from the other team (Ruby Gobert's jumper against the Nuggets last year, Terrence Mann incinerating the Jazz in '21)? Which, yea, miserable!

There's a seasonality to the NBA, for me, that basketball will forever be a winter sport first and foremost (going back to playing intramurals in middle school). The NBA curls up with winter — welcoming you in from the cold, something to look forward to as the outside world chills and darkens — and bucks against spring and summer, demanding more attention and focus when there's long spring and summer nights better spent away from the TV. Pain of viewership increases with temperature, which is shit. You think it's fun sitting in your chair hands over your mouth hoping your team can hold on in the last seconds of a game and it's 85 and humid and you're trying not to sweat on your recliner? When I feel most distractible, pulled outside and elsewhere and wanting to walk and stargaze and soak in the warmth (even as that warmth has become less precious, the winters shortening year by year). Or as a kid, playing basketball outside in midsummer with my friends.

Why I love that first smell of spring, why I would never want to bottle it. A smell I love for announcing its own leaving, for spring dissipating into the leisure and comfort of summer. Why tonight I found myself wishing the season would flow the same: crescendo out of thawed snow, then giving way. A New England-ass take, to be sure.

<hr/>

The game itself was pretty solid. Sucked seeing Lebron leave injured (hopefully a speedy recovery) and Luka hobbled, something with his back, it sounded like. Yes, the Cs won. And, as they've tended to lately, they frittered away a big lead. But they held on this time. It was a great night to have my Al Horford jersey on. He was transcendent. And I loved what Richard Jefferson said near the end of the game, talking about a mic'd up clip of Jaylen Brown, talking to Luka, something along the lines of that you have a respectful hatred for your opponent, but they make you better, and I'm convinced the most actualized version of Jaylen Brown is when he's locked in guarding Luka. A few flashbacks to the Finals tonight, Brown picking Luka's pocket through smothering, individual defense. I didn't know he could defend like that till last Finals. Absolute hell. Awe-inspiring.
