---
vintage: une-histoire-de-rouge/nv
---

import { Image } from "astro:assets";

import Safta from "./safta.png";

115 degrees of dry heat somehow weighs less than Maine in mid-summer: sticky,
drowning humidity. We only get a handful of days in the 90s, rare we crest into
triple digits. I love the heat and the humidity and still, as a former coworker
called it: salamander weather. And yet, pool-side, completely pleasant, even
feeling my sinuses dry out. Nothing a ranch water and a dip here and there
didn't fix.

We stayed at the Wynn. We spent more in 4 nights than we sometimes do in a
month. We'd budgeted for that. And I'm glad we did. Staggering, really, how
they've operationalized luxury. The mall with only stores for above our income
bracket, its hallways featuring sculptures priced in the millions; a multitude
of restaurants on-site, spanning global cuisine and family-friendly to fine
dining; free drinks on the casino floor, realizing how closely you're being
watched from how quickly you'd get a refill; the tablet in the room, on which
you could book meals or any other service at the resort, charged directly to
your room; all the staff, sounding the same: hyper-professional, confident,
courteous, evenly paced, plugged in to the resort's wiring. You feel fancy,
pampered. No reason at all to step outside.

My wife had fallen asleep already, the night we got in, which is not rare, she
knows how to sleep much better than I do. The Wynn's golf course in the
foreground of our room's view. Strewn with trees. Vibrantly, lushly, green;
sticks-out-from-the-window-seat-as-the-plane's-landing green. A waterfall
feature, figure a story tall or so, on one hole. And then you scan out past the
rest of the city, only desert reaching out to mountains in the distance. At
night, sticking out again, yawning, pitch dark among the city lights and panning
digital billboards and traffic glittering past. I sat up, sipping a glass of the
champagne we'd ordered for our arrival, that hadn't been there on our arrival,
but showed up very promptly with an apology, them having to service thousands of
rooms in the place aside, it was still cold and it was still nice, the AC
temperature just right, far below guests still milling around one of the pools,
lit up, with a DJ playing, pulsing; draped over a chair, horrid posture, staring
out our window, taking the city in.

It was the Aces' first game since the Olympic break. Since A'ja Wilson kept them
afloat as Gabby Williams, toe on the line at the very end, did almost everything
she could to unseat the US. Fanfare for so many returning Olympians and we had
great seats: in the lower part of the arena, diagonally back about 20 rows from
one of the corners, in the middle of a group of clearly season ticket holders
and friends, watching the game intently throughout, chatting amongst themselves
about where-was-Jackie-Young or how good Chelsea Gray's handle looked or how
reckless Chelsea Gray could be with the ball, who left their seats at the end
saying “see you on Sunday.” At the drink stands, they had commemorative mason
jars for sale — I don't know how this behavior lands in the commons, but I drink
primarily from a 32 oz mason jar at home — that I regret not buying, $20-some
dollars aside. I'd bought a beer and popcorn already, lines get drawn at some
point I suppose. The game turned out to be a preview of the playoffs: the Aces,
afloat after a first quarter of efficient offense that turned out to be the
exception, the rest of the way handled by the Liberty. Who bulldozed their way
into the Finals, unbothered by the Aces' torrid shooting in game 2 of the semis.

<Image
  alt="Fancy meal of salatim and pita and hummus at Safta, a  Middle Eastern restaurant at the Wynn"
  src={Safta}
  width={1000}
  class="-ml-8 max-w-[calc(100%_+_64px)] lg:-ml-[150px] lg:max-w-[calc(100%_+_300px)]"
/>

A year later, we're still pretty sure this is the best meal either of us have
ever had. Not pictured, right beside the pita: two bowls of hummus, one plain,
the other with roasted mushrooms. The best hummus I've ever had; the pita, too.
I don't recall what everything was, I don't think I can make even a decent
attempt at describing them. Bouncing between flavors, a lot of using your hands,
tearing, scooping, dipping. When they brought the food to our table, I thought
it seemed on the lighter side. Of course, stuffed by the end. Though not
unpleasantly so. Not like the meat sweats. Perfectly satisfied. The restaurant
was called _Safta_. We bought their cookbook on our way out when we came back
two nights later.
[A pop-up restaurant, closed just a few months after we left](https://vegas.eater.com/2024/12/13/24320848/chef-alon-shaya-safta-1964-mediterranean-restaurant-closes-wynn-las-vegas-strip).

To people who know us, only the Vegas part of our elopement was surprising. We
got to our wedding venue,
[the Vegas Weddings chapel](https://www.702wedding.com/), a bit early. Waiting
in the lounge area, my girlfriend, half-laughing, telling me to stop
more-than-half laughing at ICP fans shouting Show Me Your Butthole at each
other, from a sort of “gonzo journalism” report on the Gathering of the Juggalos
(a shared anniversary!) I'd stumbled on. We met with the staff, presented our
documents from the Clark County Marriage License Bureau, talked through
paperwork and payments. We hadn't shelled out for an outdoor ceremony or one of
their
[pricey Elvis packages](https://www.702wedding.com/vegas-weddings-elvis-packages).
Still, like the Wynn, the staff gliding us through the whole procedure, not
coldly efficient, not overly attentive or fawning: unoffended by the blatant
transactionality. Our marriage license is signed by the Reverend Jared Cowboy.
Out of respect for his privacy, that's not the name written. And I doubt the one
actually there is his real name, but they're in the same neighborhood. Crisp
tuxedo, twinkling patent leather shoes, hair slicked into a short pompadour, he
gave a brief speech, something to do with how all loves are like snowflakes. The
photographer was having a good time, arguably too good a time, a care-free,
day-drinking sort of good time. Jared Cowboy featuring prominently in our photo
package.
