---
vintage: la-vinhota/2022
---

I don't have many thoughts about the games. I had every intention of being semi-journalistic about all this, watching the games closely and taking notes, but when I finally settled into my chair and clicked on the tv and saw my Cs (I am a Celtics fan. To my credit, I did grow up in Massachusetts and now live in Maine) get their rings and raise a banner, saw the Inside the NBA crew gather again for their farewell season, took the first few sips of wine... I hope to improve my work here, but it'll have to wait.

My partner teased me when I called opening night a holiday. I still find the sport magical, the ceremony of it all, not without dissonance, from the economic and political realities of the sport, but it's a comfort, staring into the oncoming winter, having a stupid pleasure to lean on. Late October seems to be the seasonal tipping point, when I feel the weight of the cold, looking ahead into the march of November and December and January and February and March, how now feels so long, the liminality of early fall rolling out like a carpet leading nowhere with a clear view. The start of the NBA season is steeling ourselves against the cold ahead, the league reappearing to guide us back inside.

The Celtics, it turns out, are still very, very good at basketball. A fever dream of a game. It felt like they made every three in the first half. It's fun when your rooting interest can be so good they might as well be playing a different game from their opponents. The Knicks shot well, too! More than credibly enough to win most nights. It was laughable, eventually, how effortlessly the whole team drained shot after shot, cybernetic efficiency. And Joe Mazulla even found time to cameo the Double Horford lineup! (that's Xavier Tillman and Al Horford; hey, it's not just me, <a href="https://x.com/AnnaHorford/status/1768432077433659633" target="_blank">even Al's sister, man</a> <span class="font-emoji">😆</span> Anyway). And laughing again when they went 0-fer their last 13 or so attempts and only tied, not broke, the record for made 3s in a game. I imagine the reserves heard about that in practice the next day.

It's a long season, though, and it settles in quickly. After the initial burst and usual early statistical weirdnesses, you start to see the grooves being dug, how teams will play, how the league will officiate, narratives (for lack of a better phrase, not unpacking this lol ) taking shape, and the league's cadence monotones, plodding through the winter months. I love the season during this time, from November through All Star or so. There's still so much of the season ahead, comfortably in the middle, away from the borders, the excitement of the start and the panic and chaos and celebration and tragedy of the end, when the reality of next steps set in for every team. Things happen, sometimes trades, sometimes coach firings, drama always, but it feels slower. These are the months for just watching basketball; just watching, without distractions.

The Wolves and the Knicks both feel like teams ready to jump ahead to the thick of those months. Both teams in upheaval, tied together by the Karl Anthony-Towns trade late in the offseason. The Knicks, uniting around Jalen Brunson and his hometown town pay cut and gutsy play. They literally couldn't play anymore at the end of last season, decimated by injuries, overused, burned out. But still feeling like a team with its best ahead of itself, if health broke right next year. The Wolves, coming off a magical season that, while ending in disappointment, felt like more than validation of their recent big swings. Anthony Edwards, my goodness. And Gobert (his politics aside), replay the clip of Luka screaming at him at the end of game 2 of the WCF all you want, was outstanding. Gobert, lambasted throughout the 2022-23 season as washed and overpriced, a potent reminder of the actual timeline these seismic moves sometimes need to play out and settle. That trades are not strictly a mechanical exchange of statistical value. A handful of human beings were very publicly relocated across the country for their work, which now demands they adapt immediately to new people, new surroundings, new operations, all while dealing with constant scrutiny and criticism and erosion of privacy and space to relax and recuperate. At least it seems to me from way outside it all. I don't know how professional athletes do it, makes me want to drink a bag of edibles and crawl into bed for a week. This is, of course, an oversimplification, blurring away so many factors that I'm sure contributed to the Wolves' struggles two seasons ago and how that funneled into their turnaround last year. And maybe both teams will immediately erase any doubts and rocket through the start of this year. But it won't be surprising if the results are choppier to start or even throughout this entire season, no matter how impatient and cruelly dismissive the noise around the league can get. I hope they can both find their footing.

The Lakers, being the Lakers, (I don't expect any grace here, but I swear I don't hate this team; I'm not so much of a Celtics homer that I can't appreciate how interesting this team is, the storylines they're bringing to this season, and of course how otherworldly Lebron and AD are, still), are noisy. I don't have anything to say about that. They looked good tonight! Rui asserted himself. Dalton Knecht's shot looks smooth. The Bronny moment was very cool (with a Griffeys sighting, no less!). AD as the offensive hub, looking like a worldbeater. They have a deeply imperfect roster and much will be made about the coaching situation of it all. Who knows how their season will go; their last few have been up and down and they largely stood pat this offseason. But many reasons to watch, chief among them, of course, appreciating the long twilight of Lebron's career.

Lebron, who I last saw play in the Olympics. In maybe the two most incredible games of basketball I've ever watched (the semis and finals). The Serbia game….I've watched the highlights so many times. I don't know what to say, what I imagine they mean by a religious experience. I know that sounds overwrought and dumb, but seeing KD and Steph and Lebron igniting the team, showing how they've made me and so many others come to love this sport over the last 20 years, with the undertone that they will, in all likelihood, not play in LA in 2028. No better monument to the staggering presence of those 3. Super heros, truly.

And so fall arrives, with not so much distance from those memories, and fresh off the WNBA playoffs, of feeling sick for the Lynx, watching them and the Liberty clobber each other across five wild games, and this season feels strange. Less like the usual fresh start, but a muted continuation. A layover, almost. But we're close. Just a bit more time, one last, short leg, and we're settled in, cozying into watching hoops just for hoops, a break from worrying about stakes and legacies, growing and already monumental alike, until the first thaws of spring come. A season for slowing down and good wine. Here's hoping.