---
cepage: 30% Grenache, 30% Merlot, 15% Syrah, 15% Cabernet Sauvignon, 10% Alicante
dateTried: 03/08/2025
wine: avanti-popolo
---

Puckering! So acidic, sour, but really, really enjoyable. Incredibly light. Zaps your tongue so hard that it feels big and bold,
but then lightens, dissipating faster than it came. Almost tricks you into thinking it's effervescent. But still, a distinctly
fruity taste behind the initial hit of sour, syrupy almost, but hollowed out, enough of a hint that you'd say it's sweet, without
tasting so. Not tannic at all, barely any residual mouth feel. I know this sounds demeaning, I don't mean it to be, I was trying to
place the fruit it most reminded me of, and what crossed my mind: a sour blue raspberry jolly rancher. Which isn't a thing, the
sour part at least, to my knowledge, but like if you popped a blue raspberry jolly rancher, the sweetest of the flavors by my recollection,
in your mouth, swished it around, then sucked on a lemon, you'd get the first taste of this wine. To be clear, I absolutely LOVE blue
raspberry jolly ranchers. Not that I've had one in over decade at least (which, now that I've reminded myself of that fact and having a hopeless sweet
tooth and lack of self-control, I'll inevitably change it), but I have fond memories as a kid, of getting them as a treat at the end
of middle school band class from Mr. K if we behaved. I can see this being lovely in the middle of summer; served cold, alongside a
tall glass (or by my preference, a large mason jar) of ice water.

<a
href="https://primalwine.com/products/le-temps-des-cerises-avanti-popolo"
target="\_blank"> This seller</a> described it as a vin de soif, which taught me the phrase vin de soif, or drinking wine. Though more usefully, poetically, this definition:

<figure class="quote">
  <blockquote cite="https://www.lemonde.fr/en/food/article/2024/06/24/what-is-a-vin-de-soif_6675580_119.html">
    To say that it's a wine that quenches thirst like water is not enough. "It's
    a bottle that can be opened with one other person and that you're sure to
    finish within the evening!" For Morgan Hubert, wine purchasing manager at
    E.Leclerc, a major French retailer, the definition is obvious.
  </blockquote>
  <figcaption>
    <cite>
      Ophélie Neiman —
      <a
        href="https://www.lemonde.fr/en/food/article/2024/06/24/what-is-a-vin-de-soif_6675580_119.html"
        target="_blank"
      >
        "What is a vin de soif?"
      </a>
      <span class="ml-2 italic">Le Monde</span>
    </cite>
  </figcaption>
</figure>
