Well, I’m writing this on January 18th, 2025. Life may have gotten in the way a bit. I was exhausted going into the holidays. For no particular reason: work wasn’t particularly busy, no significant commitments outside of work, weekends were mostly free, minimal holiday plans. And still, dragging. I don’t know how to feel about it, what kind of person I am that I’m prone to these spells, what kind of person I might be if I weren’t.

I’m writing from fragments of thoughts I dumped in a note on my phone back on December 14th. Without explanation, I’d jotted down “Living in the Past” by Jethro Tull. An album I hadn’t listened to in ages. One my dad showed me when I was in 7th grade, going through a classic rock phase, that I remember listening to a lot that year sick at home from school. I had strep 3 or 4 times that winter, if I recall right, enough time at home to read through the Lord of the Rings trilogy. I must have felt awful, but I only remember lying in bed, cozy, sun beaming in. Reading. Drifting off to sleep, listening.

Those memories hit bittersweet, in the same way that I wasn’t ready for how happy I’d feel when this week, for whatever reason, I was possessed to pick up a cookbook, “The New Vegetarian Cooking” by Deborah Madison (I can’t recommend it highly enough) one I used to pull recipes from all the time roughly a decade ago. True winter cold’s hit Maine recently and I wanted to make a vegetable soup. flipping through the pages, reading through recipes, the joy of discovering a soup, a winter vegetable chowder, that sounded like it’d really hit the spot (and it did). taking the time to enjoy the process of cooking, simmering, waiting for the vegetables to soften and meld together and the soup to settle and overnight alchemize into something heartier and deeper than it ever was hot off the stove.

Moments of slowness. [Farting around as Kurt Vonnegut said](https://richardswsmith.wordpress.com/2017/11/18/we-are-here-on-earth-to-fart-around-and-dont-let-anybody-tell-you-any-different/). Inefficiency, even. Do you need these moments to recover from the plodding routine of work and errands and constant progression?

I would be a different person if I weren’t so myopic, so prone to procrastinate and settle into routine and refuse to look up until the rut’s too deep. I don’t know what I’ve lost to this tendency, what it means. Letting go, moving on.

But before I do, I can vaguely recall what I watched back in December. It was the semifinals of the NBA Cup. The Rockets-Thunder game was forgettable, but I loved the Hawks-Bucks. And I watched because I wanted to see Trae Young. I haven’t been such a fan of his in the past for whatever reason, but I’ve loved watching him and the Hawks in general this year. A truly bizarre team. I have no idea if they’re any good. They’ve beat the Cavs twice and the Celtics once (and they’ll probably beat them again because the Hawks are somehow the ‘14 spurs whenever they play my Cs… fun. At least Dejounte Murray, perhaps the top Celtic killer in the league, is elsewhere now). They’ve spent just about the entire season hovering around .500.

Much has been made of his down shooting efficiency. But much has also been made of his big assist numbers. I love seeing players evolve and find comfort in their careers and Trae seems to have found it. He’s playing with a fluidity and joy that weren’t so evident the last few years (though I’m no Hawks expert, I'm sure this is projection, somewhat). Like his team, an imperfect, confusing player. And easy fodder for forcing a metaphor: him losing some individually, exchanging personal efficiency for lifting up those around him, a floor-raiser, force multiplier. I don’t have the wherewithal now to think this through better, but after a year of stasis, of looking in the past for some sense of hope for the future, silly myths of cohesion and harmony don’t seem like the unhealthiest place to pull solace from.
