---
date: "November 15, 2024"
slug: "2024-11-15"
ballContent: 2024-11-15/ball
wineContent: 2024-11-15/wine
---

## Who's playing?

- Miami Heat at Indiana Pacers, 7:00PM Eastern
- Philadelphia 76ers at Orlando Magic, 7:00PM Eastern
- Detroit Pistons at Toronto Raptors, 7:00PM Eastern
- Washington Wizards at Atlanta Hawks, 7:30PM Eastern
- Chicago Bulls at Cleveland Cavaliers, 7:30PM Eastern
- Brooklyn Nets at New York Knicks, 7:30PM Eastern
- Los Angeles Lakers at San Antonio Spurs, 7:30PM Eastern
- Los Angeles Clippers at Houston Rockets, 8:00PM Eastern
- Denver Nuggets at New Orleans Pelicans, 8:00PM Eastern
- Phoenix Suns at Oklahoma City Thunder, 8:00PM Eastern
- Memphis Grizzlies at Golden State Warriors, 10:00PM Eastern
- Minnesota Timberwolves at Sacramento Kings, 10:00PM Eastern

## Why Tonight?

I do not care about the NBA Cup, no matter how many times Michael Imperioli says I should. <span class="font-emoji">😆</span> sorry, about this, I’m a hater

Rockets-Clippers tops the bill for me: I adore the Rockets, frankenstein that they are. They have too many players, I don't always understand what they're trying to do with their rotations, but the talent is undeniable. Jalen Green, Alperen Sengun, Tari Eason, Amen Thompson, Jabari Smith Jr., woof. They're going to be absolute hell to deal with in 2 years. For LA’s part, I’ve really enjoyed the Normal Powell experience so far, he’s been lights out. And it’s been fascinating watching Harden evolve his game as he’s aged; I know there’s a lot of noise around him, but he is such a purely skilled offensive player. With how the Clippers have competed on defense, this could be a disgusting game, with the Clippers looking to avenge wednesday night, no less. Really looking forward to it.

Beyond that, a lot to watch for, but top of mind:

- Heat / Pacers is very much a styles-make-fights game; love Jimmy and Bam, as much as they've given me heartburn in the playoffs. As did the Pacers last year; the Cs swept them, but not without showing the Celtics can struggle with speed (like when the Pacers upended them last week). Early season inconsistencies, but I bet this team rounds into a scary form later in the year
- Lebron and Wemby on the court together, I can't help it. Oh yea, AD’s there, too. And Steph Castle, wow does he look like he’s going to be really good
- Pistons-Raptors: Grady Dick's been slinging it lately; record aside, Raps have not been a fun matchup for anyone. Detroit hasn't either. Jaden Ivy has been a revelation, love Cade and Duren. You're seeing the pieces start to click, very cool
- Atlanta-Washington: chaos! Dyson Daniels already stole the ball from you 10 times. Bilal Coulibaly looks great. This game could easily be a mess, but excited to see those two keep rolling.
- Revenge game for the Kings on their home floor. I think the Kings are still figuring it out with Demar, which is to be expected. Big change to their offense. But I love this team. I hopped right onto the bandwagon a couple years back with the light-the-beam run. Results are sometimes down, but the entertainment factor never is. Anthony Edwards is also as good a shooter as Steph now, so that's cool, I guess
- And of course: how far do the Bulls push the Cavs this time? Cleveland has been inevitable. And Chicago has acquitted themselves far better than I think anyone expected. Should be a fun one.
